# Credit-Risk-Machine-Learning
Module 17 ML work
## Precision Score, Recall Score and Balanced Accuracy Score
### Random Oversampler
The random oversampling method provided a precision score of 100% for low risk and 1% for high risk, a recall score of 76% for high risk and 58% for low risk, and a balanced accuracy score of 67%. This means the random oversampling method properly captured all of the low risk people, but only 1% of the high risk people, based on its precision score. Its recall score of means it properly predicted high risk credit scores 76% of the time and low risk 58% of the time. The balanced accuracy score of 67%, suggest it can accurately predict things (including false negatives/positives) 67% of t he time.
### SMOTE
The SMOTE method provided a precision score of 100% for low risk and 1% for high risk, a recall score of 63% for high risk and 68% for low risk, and a balanced accuracy score of 65%. This means the random oversampling method properly captured all of the low risk people, but only 1% of the high risk people, based on its precision score. Its recall score of means it properly predicted high risk credit scores 63% of the time and low risk 68% of the time. The balanced accuracy score of 65%, suggest it can accurately predict things (including false negatives/positives) 65% of t he time.
### Undersample with Cluster Centroids
The undersampling with cluster centroids method provided a precision score of 100% for low risk and 1% for high risk, a recall score of 68% for high risk and 42% for low risk, and a balanced accuracy score of 55%. This means the random oversampling method properly captured all of the low risk people, but only 1% of the high risk people, based on its precision score. Its recall score of means it properly predicted high risk credit scores 68% of the time and low risk 42% of the time. The balanced accuracy score of 55%, suggest it can accurately predict things (including false negatives/positives) 55% of t he time.
### Combination with SMOTEENN
The combination with SMOTEENN  method provided a precision score of 100% for low risk and 1% for high risk, a recall score of 74% for high risk and 56% for low risk, and a balanced accuracy score of 65%. This means the random oversampling method properly captured all of the low risk people, but only 1% of the high risk people, based on its precision score. Its recall score  means it properly predicted high risk credit scores 74% of the time and low risk 56% of the time. The balanced accuracy score of 65%, suggest it can accurately predict things (including false negatives/positives) 65% of t he time.
## Final Recommendation and Justification
Given my analysis on the four algorithms discussed above, I believe the best model to use for predicting credit risk is the random oversampling method. This is due to 1.) all of the methods have the same levels of precision for both high and low risk 2.) The random oversampler has the higher recall score for high risk, which is critical, as you want to accurately assess the highest % of high risk for properly giving out loans. 3.) It also had the highest balanced accuracy score, to show it had the best mix of precision and recall, although that was still only 67%, which is moderate prediction capabilities.
